---
title:                  "Blog hosting"
date:                   2025-12-31T12:00:00+01:00
type:                   posts
draft:                  false
showTableOfContents:    true
---
## Where?
Physically - on a router at my parents' house.

Logically - https://blog.dautor.xyz/ (broken for some people) and https://dautor.github.io/blog/ (broken for everyone but in a different way).

## How?
It's a static site.
I point my web server to the directory that was generated by [hugo](https://gohugo.io/) and it works.

## Complications
### I don't care too much about the web
I don't care for hugo or how the result looks as long as the content is there and can be read easily.
Currently, I'm using a theme called [blowfish](https://blowfish.page/).
It's pretty but I don't really like how it wastes a lot of horizontal screen space around the "content" part.
I haven't checked whether I can change this easily.

I really don't want to be fiddling with web stuff right now.
There are too many knobs and dials and I don't want to spend my time looking at random options I'm not interested in.

### DNS
I don't have an internet connection at home so I'm hosting this on a router at my parents house.
ISPs here do not provide static IP addresses without an absurdly high fee.
The IPv4 address changes every 24 hours.
Also, none of them have IPv6 support.
I've actually managed to convince the provider to give me IPv6, but it is a /64 subnet that changes every 24 hours... Useless, again...

To get around this, I'm using [HE IPv6 Tunnel Broker](https://tunnelbroker.net/).
They give me a /48 IPv6 subnet _for free_!

I host my DNS from that subnet.
([DNS visualization](/img/dnsviz-blog.svg))

I have two *NS* records for my domain - _ns1.dautor.xyz._ and _ns2.dautor.xyz._.
I have *AAAA* records for *NS* records.
I do *not* have A records for *NS* records.

For *A* records (that are not _ns1_ and _ns2_) I use timeout of 60 seconds.

It works great but other people told me they have issues resolving my DNS records because their recursive resolver does not support IPv6 and so it gives up when it sees no *A* records available for my *NS* records.

### Github
I got a recommendation to use free static site hosting that Github provides.
It was fairly simple to set up - I just followed [this](https://gohugo.io/host-and-deploy/host-on-github-pages/) tutorial.

I don't like the fact that I have to host the source on Github but it is what it is.
I don't care for their features, runners, actions, projects, etc.
I just want a static site to be available to people.

#### More Github problems
Images are broken and not showing up and asciinema player from [freebsd-kernel-development-setup] is also not showing up.
I'd rather not spend little time I have on fixing this but rather focus on development.

## Help me
Is there a simpler solution to all of this?

If you know how to help me with any of the issues mentioned, please reach out to me via [e-mail](mailto:blog@dautor.xyz) or Github issues.
